cmd/protoc-gen-protolint/README.md, before:

# protoc-gen-protolint

## Installation

Download `protoc-gen-protolint` and make sure it's available in your PATH. Once it's
in your PATH, `protoc` will be able to make use of the plug-in.

### Via Homebrew

protoc-gen-protolint can be installed for Mac or Linux using Homebrew via the [yoheimuta/protolint](https://github.com/yoheimuta/homebrew-protolint) tap.

```
brew tap yoheimuta/protolint
brew install protolint
```

### Via GitHub Releases

You can also download a pre-built binary from this release page:

- https://github.com/yoheimuta/protolint/releases

In the downloads section of each release, you can find pre-built binaries in .tar.gz packages.

### From Source

The binary can be installed from source if Go is available.
However, I recommend using one of the pre-built binaries instead because it doesn't include the version info.

```
go get -u -v github.com/yoheimuta/protolint/cmd/protoc-gen-protolint
```

## Usage

```
protoc --protolint_out=. *.proto
```

A version subcommand is supported.

```
protoc-gen-protolint version
```

All flags, which is supported by protolint are passed as an option to the plugin as a comma separated text. It should look like below.

```
protoc \
    --protolint_out=. \
    --protolint_opt=v,fix,config_dir_path=_example/config,reporter=junit,plugin=./plugin_example \
    *.proto
```

### With [Grpc.Tools package (.NET Build)](https://chromium.googlesource.com/external/github.com/grpc/grpc/+/HEAD/src/csharp/BUILD-INTEGRATION.md)

When you specify `ProtoRoot`, make sure to add `--proto_root` option like the below.

```
<ItemGroup>
  <Protobuf Include="protos\**\*.proto" AdditionalProtocArguments="--protolint_out=.;--protolint_opt=proto_root=protos" ProtoRoot="protos" />
</ItemGroup>
```

## Option

### proto_root

If you add [protoc's --proto_path](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#generating) to read your proto files in the specified directory,
protolint could fail to locate the proto files. You should tell protolint the root directory like the below.

```
❯ ls protos
helloworld.proto

❯ protoc \
    --proto_path=protos
    --protolint_out=. \
    --protolint_opt=proto_root=protos \
    helloworld.proto
```

Commit message:

Issue #328 Add deployment to Maven Central
This commit adds publishing of the generated distributions from goreleaser to Maven Central.

It also includes an example of usage when the plugin has been published.

cmd/protoc-gen-protolint/README.md, after:

# protoc-gen-protolint

## Installation

Download `protoc-gen-protolint` and make sure it's available in your PATH. Once it's
in your PATH, `protoc` will be able to make use of the plug-in.

### Via Homebrew

protoc-gen-protolint can be installed for Mac or Linux using Homebrew via the [yoheimuta/protolint](https://github.com/yoheimuta/homebrew-protolint) tap.

```
brew tap yoheimuta/protolint
brew install protolint
```

### Via GitHub Releases

You can also download a pre-built binary from this release page:

- https://github.com/yoheimuta/protolint/releases

In the downloads section of each release, you can find pre-built binaries in .tar.gz packages.

### Via Maven Central

This plugin is also available on Maven Central. For details about how to use it, check out the [gradle
example](../../_example/gradle).

### From Source

The binary can be installed from source if Go is available.
However, I recommend using one of the pre-built binaries instead because it doesn't include the version info.

```
go get -u -v github.com/yoheimuta/protolint/cmd/protoc-gen-protolint
```

## Usage

```
protoc --protolint_out=. *.proto
```

A version subcommand is supported.

```
protoc-gen-protolint version
```

All flags, which is supported by protolint are passed as an option to the plugin as a comma separated text. It should look like below.

```
protoc \
    --protolint_out=. \
    --protolint_opt=v,fix,config_dir_path=_example/config,reporter=junit,plugin=./plugin_example \
    *.proto
```

### With [Grpc.Tools package (.NET Build)](https://chromium.googlesource.com/external/github.com/grpc/grpc/+/HEAD/src/csharp/BUILD-INTEGRATION.md)

When you specify `ProtoRoot`, make sure to add `--proto_root` option like the below.

```
<ItemGroup>
  <Protobuf Include="protos\**\*.proto" AdditionalProtocArguments="--protolint_out=.;--protolint_opt=proto_root=protos" ProtoRoot="protos" />
</ItemGroup>
```

## Option

### proto_root

If you add [protoc's --proto_path](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3#generating) to read your proto files in the specified directory,
protolint could fail to locate the proto files. You should tell protolint the root directory like the below.

```
❯ ls protos
helloworld.proto

❯ protoc \
    --proto_path=protos
    --protolint_out=. \
    --protolint_opt=proto_root=protos \
    helloworld.proto
```
